'So if we use aggregate function the result row size will be changed.
- To tackle that we have to use window function so **the result row size is same as the table size**.
Example:
- If we have to find the total earning of each store we can use `sum()` and group by  `store_name` but if we want to have  transaction id with these
- Like we need the same table but with an extra column which have the total earning of the shop.

Syntax:
- The having an `over()` next to a normal aggregate function.
- In `over()` we can give two arguments.
- `partition by` and `order by`
`partition by ----` -  only does the operation(aggregation) for -----. 
`order by ` similar to normal but 
**Aggregate function**

```mysql
select tran_id,s_name,amount,
 sum(amount) over (partition by s_name order by tran_id desc) as Total_amount
from shops;
```
here it the original  table size is not changed it create a new column  as `Total_amount` and add that to every respective column.
- Every shop `A` will have the sum of all A amount in  a specific column .
- Order by   - order `tran_id` by  partition by partition.

**It is similar to all other aggregate functions so dont need to see**
 

**RANKING**

Row Number:
Create a unique number for each row 
```mysql
%%sql
select tran_id,s_name,amount, row_number() over(order by amount desc) as NUM_DESC from shops;
```
Here this what s does is  it partition first by the name and in the name it gives the number by the order of amount in desc order.

Delete duplicate using `row_number` 
```mysql
with employee_dedu as(
select id,name,hiredate,
row_number() over(partition by id order by hiredate asc) as newnum 
from employee
)
select id,name,hiredate from employee_dedu where newnum=1;
```

**Rank**
The difference between  `row_number` and `rank` is that:
in `row_num` we get unique  but in rank if the constraint for the order is same than the same number for both and for the next number we row number will be next of next.

for example **top three marks in a class , if the first and second have same mark, then the rank will be 1 for them and for the third person the rank will be `3`.**
```mysql
select tran_id,s_name , rank() over(order by amount desc) as rank_num
from shops;
```


**dense rank**
Same as rank, but the main difference is
**Top three marks in a class , if the first and second have same mark, then the rank will be 1 for them and for the third person the rank will be `2`.**
```mysql
select tran_id,s_name , dense_rank() over(order by amount desc) as rank_num
from shops;
```

**NTILE**
When we want to rank them  by  group we can use ntile

```mysql
select tran_id,s_name , ntile(4) over(order by amount desc) as rank_num
from shops;
```
here  the rank number is classified into 4 parts 1,2,3,4 based on the amount.



LAG
gives the previous value  of a partition
```mysql
select * lag(salary) over(partition by employee_id,order by year) as previous_salary from employees;
```
here the lag will find the a previous value in the **PARTITION** in order of the year desc.

LEAD
To get the next value we  have to use lead
```mysql
select product,purchase_date,amount,
lead(amount) over(partition by product order by purchase_date) as next_sale_amount
amount - lag(amount) over(partition by product order by purchase_date) as amount_diff
from shop;
```

**`first_value`**
To get the first value in of in a specific field for every record we can use first_value
```mysql
select name,emp_id,salary,year
first_value(salary) over(partition by emp_id order by year) as first_salary
from employee;
```

**`last_value`**
To get the last value of  field in every other row
```mysql
select name,emp_id,salary,year
last_value(salary) over(partition by emp_id order by year 
rows between current row and unbounded following) as last_salary
from employee;
```
but  we have to add an extra parameter `rows between current row and unbounded following`
**Also we can implement the `last_value` effect with using `desc` in order by the year**

**`nth_value`*** 
To get the nth largest or smallest we can use `nth_value` to get the nth value.
```mysql

```

